---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Incentive Structure

Srcful's incentive model for connecting Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) to the decentralized energy grid consists of two key components: Proof-of-Source (PoS) and Proof-of-Control (PoC). PoS rewards DER owners for validating their energy source and connecting their DER to the Srcful network, while PoC is an optional feature that allows Srcful to sell the energy generated by the DER on the flexibility grid service markets. Together, these features create a more sustainable and decentralized energy system and provide additional incentives for DER owners to contribute to the energy marketplace.

## Proof-of-Souce (PoS)

PoS (Proof-of-Source) is a key component of Srcful's incentive model for connecting Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) to the Srcful network. PoS rewards DER owners for contributing green energy to the decentralized energy grid by validating and verifying their energy source through the use of blockchain technology.

DER owners who connect their DERs to the Srcful network and validate their energy source through PoS receive SRC tokens as a reward. These tokens can be used to participate in the energy marketplace, or exchanged for other cryptocurrencies or fiat currency on various cryptocurrency exchanges.

The PoS incentive model is essential for clustering a lot of DERs on the Srcful network, as it encourages DER owners to connect their DERs and participate in the energy marketplace. This clustering effect is critical for the flexibility market, as it enables a more efficient and reliable energy grid by providing a larger pool of energy resources that can be used to balance supply and demand.

By incentivizing DER owners to connect their DERs to the Srcful network through PoS, we can create a more sustainable and decentralized energy system that benefits both DER owners and the energy market as a whole. Join us in shaping the future of energy with Srcful and start earning rewards for your green energy contributions today.

## Proof-of-Control (PoC)

PoC (Proof-of-Control) is the next step in the Srcful platform's incentive model for connecting Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) to the decentralized energy grid. PoC is an optional feature that allows DER owners to give Srcful control over their DER, allowing Srcful to sell the energy generated by the DER on the flexibility grid service markets.

By enabling PoC, DER owners can receive additional rewards for their energy contributions beyond the standard PoS rewards. This is because PoC allows Srcful to sell clustered DERs as a single entity on the flexibility grid service markets, which enables greater flexibility in balancing supply and demand for energy.

DER owners who enable PoC retain full ownership of their DER and can opt out of the program at any time. Srcful takes great care to ensure that DERs are not overused or damaged during the energy selling process.

Overall, PoC is an important feature of the Srcful platform, as it enables greater flexibility in the energy marketplace and provides additional incentives for DER owners to contribute to the decentralized energy grid. By participating in the PoC program, DER owners can help shape the future of energy and earn rewards for their contributions to a more sustainable and decentralized energy system.




