---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Using Srcful

The Srcful platform incentivizes users to contribute to a sustainable and decentralized energy system through two models: Proof-of-Source and Proof-of-Control. With Proof-of-Source, users can earn rewards for their green energy contributions when a Distributed Energy Resource (DER) produces green energy and is validated through the Srcful network. Proof-of-Control offers Distributed Energy Resource (DER) owners an additional method to earn rewards. It enables customers, particularly energy companies, to authorize Srcful to sell the power generated by their DERs in markets for ancillary services, such as frequency containment reserves. The balancing authorities purchase clusters of DERs, and payments for power sold by Srcful are used to buy and burn SRC tokens. By participating in Proof-of-Source and Proof-of-Control, users can contribute to a sustainable energy system and earn rewards for their contributions.

## Proof-of-Source

<div class="alert alert--primary" role="alert">
  Proof-of-Source support planned to start for Sweden Q2 2023.<br />
  <i>World wide rollout planned for 2023/2024</i>
</div><br />

When a Distributed Energy Resource (DER) connected to the Srcful network produces green energy, the amount of energy produced is measured by the Energy Gateway and sent to the Srcful network for validation through Proof-of-Source.

If the energy source is validated, the DER owner is rewarded with SRC tokens based on the scale of validation and the percentage of the total green energy created in the network that their DER contributed. The SRC tokens are then sent to the DER owner's Solana wallet, where they can be used to participate in the energy marketplace or exchanged for other cryptocurrencies or fiat currency on various cryptocurrency exchanges.

Overall, Proof-of-Source is an important part of the Srcful platform's incentive model, as it provides DER owners with a tangible reward for their contributions to the decentralized energy grid. By participating in Proof-of-Source, DER owners can help create a more sustainable and equitable energy system while earning rewards for their green energy contributions.

## Proof-of-Control

<div class="alert alert--primary" role="alert">
    Proof-of-Control support planned to start in Sweden 2023/2024.<br />
  <i>Support in other countries to be announced</i>
</div><br />

Proof-of-Control offers Distributed Energy Resource (DER) owners an additional method to earn rewards. It enables customers, particularly energy companies, to authorize Srcful to sell the power generated by their DERs in markets for ancillary services, such as Frequency Containment Reserves. Theese Energy companies buy clusters of DERs to be controlled, typically days in advance. When the DERs are called upon to either turn on or shut down, they are often controlled for a short duration, usually just a few minutes a few times per year.

Payments from the balancing authorities for power sold by Srcful are used to buy SRC tokens on the open market, which are then burned.

At the same time, DERs participating in the flexibility grid service markets, Proof-of-Control, and that fulfill the Srcful validation requirements through Proof-of-Source are also rewarded with SRC tokens. These tokens are sent to the DER owner's Solana wallet, where they can be used to participate in the energy marketplace or exchanged for other cryptocurrencies or fiat currency on various cryptocurrency exchanges.

Overall, Proof-of-Control provides DER owners with an additional way to earn rewards for their green energy contributions, while also helping to create a more efficient and reliable energy grid through the clustering of DERs. By participating in Proof-of-Source, DER owners can contribute to a more sustainable and decentralized energy system while earning rewards for their contributions to the energy marketplace.

## The Beginning of a Sustainable Energy Future

The Srcful platform's Proof-of-Source and Proof-of-Control incentive models provide DER owners with tangible rewards for their green energy contributions to the decentralized energy grid. However, this is just the beginning of what a community of connected DERs can achieve.

As the Srcful community grows and more DERs are connected to the decentralized energy grid, new possibilities emerge for additional incentive models and services.





