---
slug: welcome-to-srcful
title: Welcome to Srcful
authors: frahlg
---

# Welcome to Srcful

Are you ready to be part of the future of energy? Welcome to Srcful – the virtual power plant that is changing the game using blockchain technology and the Internet of Things (IoT). Our vision is to create a decentralized community that empowers home owners to participate in the energy market and earn crypto rewards.

We were inspired by our experience working with Helium gateways and IoT, and we realized that we could leverage the power of crypto incentives to accelerate the renewable energy market. And that's exactly what we're doing.

With Srcful, you can be part of the solution. By building and connecting your own solar panels or batteries using our Energy Gateway, you can earn tokens and monetize your contributions. This is the first platform of its kind that enables home owners to participate in the energy market in a meaningful way.

Our team is made up of senior developers, crypto enthusiasts, researchers, and IoT experts, with deep expertise in the energy sector. We're passionate about making a difference and creating a more sustainable future. And we're excited to launch our platform in Sweden, our first market, with plans to take over the world.

The energy market is changing, and you don't want to be left behind. With Srcful, you can make a real impact while earning crypto rewards. You can participate in previously closed ecosystems and monetize your contributions through services like ancillary services. And you can do all of this with confidence, knowing that your data is secure and transparent thanks to our use of blockchain technology.

So don't wait any longer. Join the Srcful community today and be part of the energy revolution. Together, we can make a real difference and create a better future for ourselves and for generations to come.