---
title: How to Join the Srcful Community and Earn Crypto
authors: frahlg
---

Joining the Srcful community is an opportunity to participate in a decentralized energy system that rewards home owners for contributing to the energy market. In this post, we'll provide a step-by-step guide to joining the Srcful community and earning tokens for contributing to the energy market.

### Step 1: Set up a Solana-powered wallet
To begin participating in the Srcful community, users will need to set up a Solana-powered wallet. This will allow users to interact with the platform, earn tokens through mining, and swap tokens for other tokens or fiat.

### Step 2: Connect solar panel or battery system
To begin earning SRCT (Srcful token), users will need to connect their own solar panel or battery system using the Srcful Energy Gateway. This device is built on the Sunspec-standard and is compatible with the large brands of inverters on the market. It provides a digital identity to the DER, allowing it to transact and prove its energy data on the blockchain.

### Step 3: Monitor energy data
Users can monitor their energy data and see all of their data on a web platform at **[https://explorer.srcful.io](https://explorer.srcful.io/)**. This will allow them to track their contributions to the decentralized grid and see the tokens they are earning in real-time.

### Step 4: Provide Proof-of-Source and Proof-of-Control
To earn SRCT, users will need to provide Proof-of-Source, which is the act of proving that their inverters are connected, and Proof-of-Control, which is the ability to be controlled on demand when delivering flexibility services to the grid. All of this can be done through the Srcful Energy Gateway.

### Step 5: Swap tokens for other tokens or fiat
Users can swap their tokens for other tokens or fiat on available exchanges, allowing them to make extra income.

### Step 6: Utilize DER services
Flexibility service providers or energy grids can utilize DER services by buying SRCT. These tokens represent the right to use DER for flexibility services to maintain a stable grid.

In summary, joining the Srcful community is an opportunity to participate in a decentralized energy system that rewards home owners for contributing to the energy market. By connecting their own solar panels or batteries using the Srcful Energy Gateway, monitoring their energy data, and providing Proof-of-Source and Proof-of-Control, users can earn SRCT and contribute to a more sustainable and decentralized energy system.