---
slug: ders-on-blockchain
title: DERs on blockchain
authors: leitet
---

Blockchain technology and the Internet of Things (IoT) are two of the most exciting and transformative technologies of our time. When combined, they have the potential to revolutionize a wide range of industries, including the energy industry. In this post, we'll provide a high-level overview of blockchain technology and the IoT and how they are used in the context of Srcful.

Let's start with blockchain technology. At its core, a blockchain is a distributed, decentralized ledger that allows for secure and transparent transactions. In the context of energy transactions, blockchain technology can provide a secure and transparent way to transact energy data and rewards. By using blockchain technology, we can create a tamper-proof and immutable record of all transactions, which ensures that data is secure and transparent.

We have chosen Solana as the blockchain for our Src-token, because it is a high-performance blockchain that can handle a large number of transactions per second, and is highly scalable. Our use of Solana means that our platform can operate at a high speed and can handle the large volume of energy transactions that will be processed.

IoT refers to a network of interconnected devices that are embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies that enable them to collect and exchange data. In the context of energy transactions, IoT devices can provide a way to monitor, control, and optimize energy resources in real-time.

At Srcful, we have developed an Energy Gateway that is equipped with a crypto chip, which allows for secure communication with the blockchain. The Energy Gateway is also compatible with Helium (LoRaWAN), which enables us to use Helium for verification and some data transfer. This means that we can provide a digital identity to distributed energy resources (DERs) like solar panels and batteries, which enables them to transact and prove their energy data on the blockchain.

The benefits of using blockchain and the IoT for energy transactions and data management are clear. They provide a secure, transparent, and efficient way to manage energy resources and rewards. By using these technologies, we can create a more decentralized and sustainable grid that empowers home owners to participate in the energy market and earn crypto rewards.

In summary, blockchain technology and the IoT are two powerful technologies that can revolutionize the energy industry. At Srcful, we're leveraging these technologies to create a platform that enables home owners to participate in the energy market and monetize their contributions. By using Solana as the blockchain for our Src-token, and our Energy Gateway with Helium for verification and data transfer, we're creating a secure and transparent platform that will transform the energy industry.