---
sidebar_label: 'Srcful Simplified'
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Srcful Simplified


<div class="alert alert--primary" role="alert">
Are you just feeling overwhelmed by all the information about Srcful? Don't worry, you're not alone! Srcful is a complex network that can be hard to understand, even for experts. That's why we've created this page for people who are new to the concept.
</div><br />

First of all, it's important to know that Srcful is all about clean and sustainable energy. We believe that the world needs to move away from dirty fossil fuels and embrace green energy sources like solar and wind power. But we also know that the transition won't happen overnight. That's where Srcful comes in.

:::tip Did you know?
"Srcful" is pronounced like "sourceful" with the emphasis on the first syllable.

The name "Srcful" is a play on the word "resourceful," reflecting the goal of the platform to enable individuals to take control of their energy resources and contribute to a more sustainable future. Additionally, the "Src" in "Srcful" represents our devotion as developers to the src-folder, which is the heart of any software project. We believe that this attention to detail and dedication to building a sustainable energy platform is what sets Srcful apart from other blockchain-based solutions in the energy sector.
:::

At its core, Srcful wants to enable the creation of a decentralized energy grid that is sustainable, efficient, and equitable for all. If you have solar panels on your roof, for example, you can use the Srcful Energy Gateway to connect to the network. The Gateway will measure how much energy you produce, and if it's validated as green energy, you'll get rewarded with SRC tokens. You can use these tokens to participate in the energy marketplace or exchange them for other cryptocurrencies or even real money.

But that's just the beginning. In the future, Srcful could also help you buy and sell energy to your neighbors. And by clustering many small green energy sources, the network can even help stabilize the grid and prevent blackouts.

It's also worth noting that Srcful uses blockchain technology, which is a way to keep track of transactions and ensure they're secure. It might sound complicated, but think of it like a digital ledger that everyone can see and no one can cheat. Learn more about the core concepts below.

:::info
There is a common misunderstanding that Srcful is a peer-to-peer energy trading platform. However, it is important to clarify that while it enables the validation and rewarding of green energy production, it is not currently a platform for peer-to-peer energy trading. This may be a possibility in the future as we continue to develop and expand the capabilities of the platform
:::

## SRC tokens and Cryptocurrencies

Cryptocurrencies are a type of digital currency that is secured by advanced computer encryption methods called cryptography. They are decentralized, which means that they operate independently of governments and financial institutions. Instead of being controlled by a central authority, cryptocurrencies rely on a network of computers and algorithms to maintain their security and integrity.

SRC tokens is a cryptocurrencie that can be earned by homeowners who connect their green energy producers to the Srcful network and contribute to a more sustainable energy system. These tokens can be used to participate in energy marketplaces, exchanged for other cryptocurrencies, or for traditional currency. In the future, it may be possible to use SRC tokens to buy and sell excess renewable energy generated by home solar panels through peer-to-peer energy trading.

The value of SRC tokens can go up and down, just like any other type of currency or investment. This is because the value of cryptocurrencies is based on supply and demand. If lots of people want to buy SRC tokens, the price will go up, but if fewer people want to buy them, the price will go down.

Overall, SRC tokens are a way for people to participate in the energy market in a new and innovative way. By using cryptocurrencies like SRC tokens, we can help create a more sustainable and equitable energy system that benefits everyone.

## Proof-of-Source

Proof-of-Source is a way to prove that the energy you produce is green, and then get rewards for it. When you have solar panels or other ways of producing green energy, you can connect them to the Srcful network through the Energy Gateway. The Energy Gateway will then measure how much green energy you produce and send that information to the Srcful network for validation.

If your green energy production is validated, you will get rewarded in SRC tokens based on how much you produced and how much other people in the network produced. These tokens are like money that you can use to participate in the energy marketplace or exchange for other kinds of money.

By participating in PoS, you're not selling your energy to anyone. Instead, you're getting rewarded for being a green energy producer and helping to create a more sustainable and equitable energy system. This is the most basic form for you to join the Srcful network.

## Proof-of-Control

When many people use renewable energy sources, the amount of energy that is available for the power grid can be unpredictable. This can cause problems for the stability of the grid, which is important for making sure everyone has access to electricity when they need it.

With Proof-of-Control, people who have renewable energy sources can offer to let Srcful control them for short periods of time, like a few minutes. This means that Srcful can help balance the supply and demand of electricity on the grid, which helps keep everything running smoothly.

The people who offer their renewable energy sources to be controlled by Srcful will get rewarded with SRC tokens just as in Proof-of-Source.

It's important to note that with Proof-of-Control, no one is selling their energy. Instead, people are offering the ability to help stabilize the power grid, and they get rewarded for that help.

## The Srcful Energy Gateway

The Srcful Energy Gateway is a small device that connects your renewable energy source, such as solar panels, to the Srcful network. The hardware is intentionally kept simple to reduce costs and environmental impact. It measures key aspects of the energy system, such as energy, power, and frequency, and sends this data to the Srcful network for validation. By connecting your renewable energy source to the Srcful network through the Energy Gateway, you can help to create a more sustainable and decentralized energy system while earning rewards for your contributions.

## Benifits for you?

Connecting to Srcful can provide ordinary households with several benefits, such as:

1. **Saving money:** By connecting to Srcful, households with renewable energy systems can earn tokens for producing green energy. 

2. **Supporting the environment:** By producing green energy, households can contribute to a more sustainable energy system and help reduce the carbon footprint.

3. **Providing stability to the grid:** By participating in the Srcful network, households can help to balance the grid by adjusting their energy generation and consumption according to real-time grid status. This can help to prevent power outages and ensure that the grid remains stable.

4. **Joining a community:** By connecting to Srcful, households become part of a larger community of like-minded individuals who are committed to sustainable energy practices. This community can provide support, advice, and inspiration to help households achieve their energy goals.

In summary, connecting to Srcful can help households save money, support the environment, provide stability to the grid, and join a community of like-minded individuals.

<div class="alert alert--primary" role="alert">
Now, go discover the full scope of Srcful by delving into the nitty-gritty details in the rest of the documentation!
</div>